Proxy Protocol (#269)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.4/modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/task-config-proxy-protocol.adoc

//tag::intro1[]

> For use cases where Flex Gateway is deployed behind a load balancer or other proxy service, configure Proxy Protocol to preserve client IP addresses across multiple layers of NAT or TCP proxies.

Reviewer: I thought we only used "where" when referring to location, but the SR isn't definitive.

> In Proxy Protocol, the load balancer or other proxy service sends the Proxy Protocol header containing the client address and additional information to Flex Gateway. To learn more about Proxy Protocol, see the https://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt[HAProxy specification].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Proxy Protocol, the load balancer or other proxy service sends the Proxy Protocol header containing the client address and additional information to Flex Gateway. To learn more about Proxy Protocol, see the https://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt[HAProxy specification^].
```

> In Proxy Protocol, the load balancer or other proxy service sends the Proxy Protocol header containing the client address and additional information to Flex Gateway. To learn more about Proxy Protocol, see the https://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt[HAProxy specification^].

Reviewer: Should the second ref be in single quotes?

Enabling Proxy Protocol only enables Flex Gateway to receive the Proxy Protocol header. Your load balancer or other proxy service must support Proxy Protocol to transmit the header.

//end::intro1[]

//tag::icon-table[]

[cols="1a,1a,1a"]
|===
|image:install-linux-logo.png[20%,20%,xref="#linux"]
|image:install-docker-logo.png[25%,25%,xref="#docker"]
|image:install-kubernetes-logo.png[20%,20%,xref="#kubernetes"]

> |<<linux>>

Reviewer 2: Do these need link text?

|<<linux,Linux>>
|<<docker,Docker>>
|<<kubernetes,Kubernetes>>

|<<docker>>
|<<kubernetes>>
|===

//end::icon-table[]

//tag::byb[]

== Before You Begin

Before enabling Proxy Protocol for Flex Gateway, complete the following tasks:

> * xref:flex-install.adoc[Download Flex Gateway]

Reviewer: Are these sequential? If so, ordered list.

Author: Fixed

* xref:flex-{page-mode}-reg-run.adoc[Register and Run Flex Gateway]

//end::byb[]

//tag::linux[]

[[linux]]
== Enable Proxy Protocol for Flex Gateway as a Linux Service

. Create a YAML configuration file in the Flex Gateway configuration directory:
+
[source,ssh]
----
sudo touch /usr/local/share/mulesoft/flex-gateway/conf.d/proxy-protocol-config.yaml
----

. Update the file with the Proxy Protocol configuration file: 

> +

Reviewer: It seems like something (the contents of the file?) is missing here.

Author: The step is in a different partial

//end::linux[]

//tag::docker-intro[]

[[docker]]
== Enable Proxy Protocol for Flex Gateway in a Docker Container

NOTE: If you have already added a volume for a folder with your

> Flex Gateway configuration files, go to the last step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flex Gateway configuration files, skip to the last step.
```

Author: I like this wording better, but we have "go" other places in the docs.

Reviewer: I prefer skip because it tells users they don't need to look at all the other steps.

> . Stop your Flex Gateway and any replicas, using Ctrl+C.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Press Ctrl+C to stop your Flex Gateway and any replicas.
```

Author: Same as above, used elsewhere in the docs

Reviewer: Your choice, but we usually put the user action first.

> . Create a folder in the directory with your Flex Gateway configuration files and name it `app`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a folder named `app` in the directory with your Flex Gateway configuration files.
```

Author: Same as above, used elsewhere in the docs

Reviewer: This comment was intended to streamline and reduce word count.

> . Restart your Flex Gateway with an additional volume for the new `app` directory:

Reviewer: I guess these make sense when included.

//tag::intro1[]

> For use cases where Flex Gateway is deployed behind a load balancer or other external service, Flex Gateway supports Proxy Protocol to perserve client IP address across multiple layers of NAT or TCP proxies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For use cases where Flex Gateway is deployed behind a load balancer or other external service, configure a Proxy Protocol to preserve client IP addresses across multiple layers of NAT or TCP proxies.
```
Redundancy and some typos

> In Proxy Protocol, the load balancer or other proxy service sends the Proxy Protocol header containing the client address information to Flex Gateway. To learn more about Proxy Protocol, see the https://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt[HAProxy specification].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Proxy Protocol, the load balancer or other proxy service sends to Flex Gateway the Proxy Protocol header containing the client address. To learn more about Proxy Protocol, see the https://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt[HAProxy specification].
```
It just kind of seemed awkward to have it so far from its verb.

Your load balancer must support Proxy Protocol to transmit the Proxy Protocol header.

> When Proxy Protocol is enabled, the Proxy Protocol header is mandatory for incoming requests. If the header is not present Envoy closes the connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When enabled, Proxy Protocol requires that incoming requests include the Proxy Protocol header. Envoy closes the connection if the header is not present.
```

//end::intro1[]

//tag::proxy-config[]
== Enable Proxy Protocol

> To enable your Flex Gateway to receive the Proxy Protocol header, add the following configuration file to your configuration directory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable Flex Gateway to receive the Proxy Protocol header, add the following YAML file to your configuration directory:
```
Reducing redundancy

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: gateway.mulesoft.com/v1alpha1
kind: Configuration
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  proxyProtocol:
    enabled: true
----

//end::proxy-config[]

//tag::see-also[]

== See Also

> * https://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt[HAProxy specification]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* https://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt[HAProxy specification^]
```
